CNBC's The China Connection newsletter: Xpeng attempts a global transformation

Electric car company Xpeng has evolved from a local EV hopeful into a global player.
After a weak 2022 and early 2023, Xpeng’s fortunes revived under new president Fengying Wang and a Volkswagen tie-up.
Xpeng’s moves mirror a wider shift as Chinese companies expand abroad amid intense domestic competition.
This report is from this week's CNBC's The China Connection newsletter, which brings you insights and analysis on what's driving the world's second-largest economy. You can subscribe here.

The big story
Cultural shifts are subtle yet fundamental for any company aiming to succeed beyond its home market.

When I visited Chinese electric car company Xpeng's new headquarters in Guangzhou last week, what stood out wasn't just how shiny it was compared to the building I'd visited last year, but the fluency of its global mindset, down to the small details like accurate English translations in signs and presentations. It went beyond the cursory "innovation" banners often seen in China.

Leaders of Xpeng's autonomous driving, robotics and flying car units each delivered 40-minute presentations entirely in English — including their decks — without any translation device. In conversation with reporters, Xpeng founder and CEO He Xiaopeng even declared a ten-year goal to generate half of the company's sales from outside China.

He has reason to be upbeat. Xpeng notched 12 straight months of more than 30,000 deliveries each, and exported a small but growing number of cars: 29,000 in just three quarters. That was more than double what Xpeng shipped from a year earlier.
Xpeng's global ambitions reflect a broader trend across China. In the last year or so, overseas expansion has become a top priority for nearly every Chinese company — an eagerness that Joe Ngai, chairman of McKinsey Greater China, said he's never seen.

"It's astonishing what this phenomenon is," he said, noting that fierce competition in China is driving local companies to seek higher profit margins abroad. But he cautioned it won't be easy, and that local partnerships would be important.

Overseas markets only accounted for 8% of total revenue for the 50 largest Chinese companies as of 2021, according to McKinsey. That is far below 31% in overseas revenue for the largest U.S. companies, the data showed.

Finding traction
I first learned about Xpeng on the sidelines of CNBC's East Tech West conference in 2018, when the Alibaba-backed startup touted its edge in autonomous driving and drew comparisons to Tesla.

But Xpeng wasn't able to release regulator-approved driver-assist systems at scale for a few years yet. Deliveries averaged just over 10,000 a month in 2022, and dipped well below that in early 2023 while rivals surged ahead.

At a small Xpeng event in Shanghai that I attended in March 2023, there were hints that the startup might have the tech — just not the product Chinese consumers wanted. The event speaker, Xinzhou Wu, head of autonomous driving, soon left to lead Nvidia's automotive chip business.

It was also in early 2023 that Xpeng brought in veteran Great Wall Motor executive Fengying Wang as president to oversee product planning and sales. Her leadership, along with the launch of a more affordable Mona M03 car, helped spark the company's turnaround. Wang remains with Xpeng today.

"Of course, it's much better when [the electric car companies have an] English-language interface," said Nick Kolodko, a Shanghai-based auto influencer who has lived in China for over a decade. He noted how some Chinese EV startups in Europe had in-car AI assistants that didn't support local languages.

He's since observed some Chinese automakers granting their overseas teams more control over the last 18 months or so, though he said there's still a gap with European rivals in shaping a compelling brand narrative.

Critically for Xpeng, it secured a $700 million investment from German auto giant Volkswagen in July 2023. The two companies have gradually expanded the partnership to include technological development.

Down the road, "Chinese EV makers can also take a lot of [intellectual property] fees from such [tech] collaboration," said George Chen, managing director and co-chair of digital practice for The Asia Group. "This will be significant because 30, 40 years ago, European carmakers and American carmakers [were] doing exactly the same thing in Chinese markets."

For now, Xpeng is taking the first step beyond exporting cars and local production.

The company opened its first European factory in Austria in August, and plans to produce tens of thousands of cars there next year, according to Brian Gu, co-president of Xpeng. A former JPMorgan executive, Gu has been with Xpeng since its early days and helped the startup build ties with Wall Street ahead of its U.S. and Hong Kong listings.

Xpeng is set to release earnings on Monday. In the first half of 2025, Xpeng claimed to be the best-selling Chinese new-energy vehicle startup brand in Norway, France, Singapore and Israel.

"The whole overseas expansion of Chinese companies will be part of the global business landscape for the next five years," McKinsey's Ngai said, "and I have zero doubts about it."

Weiwen Han, Bain & Co.'s Asia-Pacific retail practice leader, said China's sales "month" could surpass U.S. Cyber Week sales and continue to grow steadily.

Georges Elhedery, CEO of HSBC, discussed the impact of tariffs on global trade and added that China's economic rebalancing is a "welcome development."

Need to know
China's exports dip. Shipments of Chinese goods fell in October for the first time in more than a year as businesses slowed their ramp-up of orders to pre-empt tariffs.

Uneasy U.S.-China truce. Beijing has formalized agreements to delay restrictions on certain rare-earth exports for a year.

Luckin's second act. Jinyi Guo, CEO of Luckin Coffee, said the company is preparing to relist in the U.S. five years after an accounting scandal. It will face new Chinese IPO rules to do so.

Quote of the week
The one thing that was different from Xpeng AI day from its previous tech day, is that it is talking more about its ambition oversea as a brand, not just as a EV maker, because it is pushing out all these other physical AI products beyond just an electric vehicle.

